It's long and skinny like a tube and has huge
pectoral fins because it lives in the open
ocean!
I'm Jonathan Bird, and this is Shark Academy!
I'm a Blue shark and I've got huge pectoral
fins.
You know why?
Because sharks sink and they have little airplane
wings to keep them from sinking.
And the bigger your airplane wings, the slower
you can swim!
We're talking ginormous pectoral fins…so
they can cruise slowly in the open ocean.
That's what makes a Blue shark so pelagic.
A pelagic animal is an animal that lives far
from shore in the open ocean where the water
is really really deep.
They have no swim bladder.
Straight to the bottom of the ocean if they
stop swimming.
And those pectoral fins act like airplane
wings, keeping that shark soaring along, without
sinking way down there in the deep ocean.
You might wonder…why are they called Blue
sharks?
The back of a Blue shark is very very blue.
It's iridescent blue.
But you know what's weird?
When you look at the underside of a Blue shark,
it's white.
This is called countershading.
Countershading is a camouflage technique used
by sharks in open where where their dorsal
surface is darker, and their ventral surface
is lighter to help them to be harder to see
either from above or below.
Biologists have put tags into Blue sharks.
What they have learned about Blue sharks is
that they travel thousands of miles over the
year.
In fact, sharks that have been tagged in New
England have turned up in Portugal and all
over Europe.
They have turned up in the Caribbean, and
they have even come all the way around back
to New England making these huge annual migrations
between pupping grounds and feeding grounds.
Blue sharks are so skinny that they even make
me look fat, which is really hard to do because
I am wicked svelte if you know what I'm saying!
Blue sharks are so skinny that they fit between
the bars of most shark cages, so there's no
purpose to even being in the cage with a Blue
shark, because it's very unlikely that a Blue
shark will bite you.
On the internet it said that Blue sharks are
not dangerous at all, but that one time I
was diving with them and they bit my finger
off, that was not cool man.
I'm just kidding it's still there.
Blue sharks live in the open ocean first of
all.
They are far from land.
People are not generally out swimming 100
miles off shore.
You don't look like food!
You’re a human!
They eat like fish and squid and stuff.
They're not interested in you.
You're ugly.
You smell, you swim funny.
They don't bite people.
Unless you are in a shipwreck, it's very unlikely
you are ever going to see a Blue shark.
As a result, Blue sharks are simply not that
dangerous to people.
They are almost never implicated in shark
attacks.
The Blue Shark's whole purpose in life is
to be cute.
It's what they do.
They're like…kitty cats.
Blue sharks are viviparous.
Viviparous man!
Viviparous!
Which means that they produce live offspring.
Well, that's the Blue shark and if you like
that one, be sure to check out our other shark
Academy videos and subscribe to our channel
if you dig it.
Can you dig it?